DOCSP-38307: Add time series collections page (#200)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/time-series.txt

.. _csharp-time-series:

=======================
Time Series Collections
=======================

> .. default-domain:: mongodb

Reviewer: S: you can remove this default-domain directive, we don't use it anymore (not sure what it does tbh)

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use and interact with **time series collections** in
MongoDB using the {+driver-long+}.

Time series collections efficiently store sequences of measurements over
a period of time. Time series data consists of any data collected over
time, metadata that describes the measurement, and the time of the
measurement.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 33, 33, 33
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Example
     - Measurement
     - Metadata

   * - Sales Data
     - Revenue
     - Company

   * - Infection Rates
     - Amount of People Infected
     - Location

Create a Time Series Collection
-------------------------------

To create a time series collection, pass the following parameters to the
`CreateCollection() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.IMongoDatabase.CreateCollection.html>`__
method:

- The name of the new collection to create

> - The `TimeSeriesOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.TimeSeriesOptions.html>`__  for creating the collection in a `CreateCollectionOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__ object

Reviewer: S: it could be helpful to clarify what TimeSeriesOptions is (i.e. an object) and break this bullet point into two

```suggestion
- `TimeSeriesOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.TimeSeriesOptions.html>`__  object that specifies the properties of your time series collection
- `CreateCollectionOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__ object that sets your custom collection properties
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/TimeSeries.cs
   :start-after: begin-time-series
   :end-before: end-time-series
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:

> .. important::

Reviewer: S: I think it makes sense to move this admonition to the top of this section (line 45 ish), just so the reader knows the server requirement from the beginning

   Time series collections require MongoDB 5.0 or later.

To check if you successfully created the collection, send the
``"listCollections"`` command to the `RunCommand() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.IMongoDatabase.RunCommand.html>`__ method.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/TimeSeries.cs
   :start-after: begin-run-command
   :end-before: end-run-command
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:

Your output will look similar to the following:

.. code-block:: json

    {
    "cursor":{
        ...
        "firstBatch":[
            {
                "name":"september2021",
                "type":"timeseries",
                "options":{
                "timeseries":{
                    ...
                }
                },
                "info":{
                "readOnly":false
                }
            },
    ...   
    }

Query a Time Series Collection
------------------------------

> To query a time series collection, use the same conventions as you
> would for :doc:`retrieving </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve>`

Reviewer: S: to address the vale issue, you could reword to something like:
```suggestion
To query a time series collection, follow the conventions for :doc:`retrieving </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve>`
```

.. _csharp-time-series:

=======================
Time Series Collections
=======================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use and interact with **time series collections** in
MongoDB using the {+driver-long+}.

Time series collections efficiently store sequences of measurements over
a period of time. Time series data consists of any data collected over
time, metadata that describes the measurement, and the time of the
measurement.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 33, 33, 33
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Example
     - Measurement
     - Metadata

   * - Sales Data
     - Revenue
     - Company

   * - Infection Rates
     - Amount of People Infected
     - Location

Create a Time Series Collection
-------------------------------

.. important::

   Time series collections require MongoDB 5.0 or later.

To create a time series collection, pass the following parameters to the
``CreateCollection()`` method:

- Name of the new collection to create

> - A ``CreateCollectionOptions`` object that contains a ``TimeSeriesOptions`` object

Reviewer: S: remove the article here
```suggestion
- ``CreateCollectionOptions`` object that contains a ``TimeSeriesOptions`` object
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/TimeSeries.cs
   :start-after: begin-time-series
   :end-before: end-time-series
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:

To check if you successfully created the collection, send the

> ``"listCollections"`` command to the ``RunCommand()`` method.

Reviewer: S: you can add some text to introduce the code example, like:
```suggestion
``"listCollections"`` command to the ``RunCommand()`` method as shown in the following example:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/TimeSeries.cs
   :start-after: begin-run-command
   :end-before: end-run-command
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:

Your output will look similar to the following:

.. code-block:: json

    {
    "cursor":{
        ...
        "firstBatch":[
            {
                "name":"september2021",
                "type":"timeseries",
                "options":{
                "timeseries":{
                    ...
                }
                },
                "info":{
                "readOnly":false
                }
            },
    ...   
    }

Query a Time Series Collection
------------------------------

To query a time series collection, follow the conventions for 

> :doc:`retrieving </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve>` and aggregating data.

Reviewer: S: we usually try to introduce links to other pages and use the :ref: directive, so maybe something like this would work:

```suggestion
retrieving and aggregating data. For more information about these conventions, see the :ref:`csharp-retrieve` guide.
```

Additional Information
----------------------

> To learn more about the operations mentioned, see the following
> guides:

Reviewer: S: I think it would be helpful to specify that these are Server manual guides
```suggestion
To learn more about the operations mentioned on this page, see the following
Server manual guides:
```

- :ref:`manual-timeseries-collection`
- :ref:`manual-timeseries-collection-limitations`

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this

> guide, see the following API Documentation:

Reviewer: S: [nit] lowercase "documentation"
```suggestion
guide, see the following API documentation:
```
